It's time to talk to you about
the operating systems that
are available to you for
your Dragon Board 410 C.
First off, as we've mentioned
several times is Android.
And Android is a very special
operating system that allows you to
basically develop applications
similar to what you would do for
your cell phone or Android tablet.
It's a Linux-based platform for
mobile devices.
In order to develop applications or
programs for an Android operating system,
you're gonna actually have to get an IDE,
which stands for integrated
development environment, I believe.
Yeah, so once you get your IDE,
which we will teach you how to do later
on in this course,
either Android Studios or Eclipse.
For us personally,
we'll be using Android Studios.
You can begin developing for Android.
It is application centric so
you're not really going to be running much
hardware off of Android, or traditionally
you would not be running much hardware
off of your cell phone, as you know.
But when I say hardware I mean robots and
stuff like that.
>> Yeah, but applications can be made and
you can still get that kind of stuff done.
It's just not as easy.
>> Yeah, and we are going to show
you how to do that anyways, so yeah.
>> Yeah and so
my favorite though was Ubuntu.
I like the whole desktop feel a lot more,
and so
that's the one that I've currently been
spending a lot of time working with.
>> It's Linux software for
ARM architecture again, but now you have
a desktop feel, so you'll be able to
have file managers and things like that.
You get access the Internet really easily,
which I guess you can from
Android probably too.
But I just like the feel of having
a mouse and a keyboard, and
being able to program
directly onto the board.
With Ubuntu you have no
real language restrictions.
They should have C compilers,
Java compilers.
I know it's really easy to get those on
there if they're not already preinstalled.
Personally I like using Python, and so
I spent a lot of time working
on projects with that.
And again, for me personally I
find it really easy to use Ubuntu,
to be able to work with a lot of hardware
and to access the GPIO really easily.
And so we've taken the time to
quickly write some GPIO libraries and
stuff like that so we can very
quickly access them through programs.
>> Yeah so I actually wanted to
mention that, he reminded me.
One of the big differences between Android
and Ubuntu will be the fact that like he
said you can basically program
right on your board with Ubuntu.
With Android you're actually gonna be
using a computer host or a PC host,
where you write your applications or
your programs on your computer,
and then you send them to your board.
As opposed to Ubuntu where you're just
literally programming on the board
with a keyboard and mouse,
kinda like he has set up here.
>> Idle 3 opened up, and you just type
it in there and then you're good.
>> Yeah, I'll have to use a text editor.
So another thing is that
the the Ubuntu software can also be
operated by a command line only.
So if you really were savvy with Unix or
something like that,
you can just boot right into
a command line, no desktop at all.
And basically perform the exact same
things that you were doing on the desktop.
There's definitely a lot
of versatility with Ubuntu.
Windows 10,
it's currently not available right now.
It will be available, and
they are going to be having a lot of
programming abilities when this is
released for a dev board like this.
You're gonna have access to a dev center,
insider programs that kinda teach you
how to begin developing for Windows.
I believe they're kind of starting to
push towards that application market,
Windows Store, stuff like that.
So there's gonna be a lot of fun
possibilities in the future with Windows
10, especially with a dev board like this,
pushing applications out in the market.
Yeah.